Title: Initial Access-mobile
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0027/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0027", "name": "Initial Access", "name_lower": "initial access", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": null, "children": [{"name": "Enterprise", "id": "enterprise", "path": "/tactics/enterprise/", "children": [{"name": "Reconnaissance", "id": "Reconnaissance", "path": "/tactics/TA0043/", "children": []}, {"name": "Resource Development", "id": "Resource Development", "path": "/tactics/TA0042/", "children": []}, {"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0001/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0002/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0003/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0004/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0005/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0006/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0007/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0008/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0009/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0011/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0010/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0040/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Mobile", "id": "mobile", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0041/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "ICS", "id": "ics", "path": "/tactics/ics/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0108/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0104/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0110/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0111/", "children": []}, {"name": "Evasion", "id": "Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0103/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0102/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0109/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0100/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0101/", "children": []}, {"name": "Inhibit Response Function", "id": "Inhibit Response Function", "path": "/tactics/TA0107/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impair Process Control", "id": "Impair Process Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0106/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0105/", "children": []}]}]}, "domain": "mobile", "notes": null, "deprecated": false, "descr": "The adversary is trying to get into your device.\n\nThe initial access tactic represents the vectors adversaries use to gain an initial foothold onto a mobile device.", "created": "17 October 2018", "modified": "25 April 2025", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1661", "descr": "An adversary may push an update to a previously benign application to add malicious code. This can be accomplished by pushing an initially benign, functional application to a trusted application store, such as the Google Play Store or the Apple App Store. This allows the adversary to establish a trusted userbase that may grant permissions to the application prior to the introduction of malicious code. Then, an application update could be pushed to introduce malicious code.(Citation: android_app_breaking_bad)\n\nThis technique could also be accomplished by compromising a developer\u2019s account. This would allow an adversary to take advantage of an existing userbase without having to establish the userbase themselves. ", "technique_name": "Application Versioning", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1456", "descr": "Adversaries may gain access to a system through a user visiting a website over the normal course of browsing. With this technique, the user's web browser is typically targeted for exploitation, but adversaries may also use compromised websites for non-exploitation behavior such as acquiring an [Application Access Token](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001).\n\nMultiple ways of delivering exploit code to a browser exist, including:\n\n* A legitimate website is compromised where adversaries have injected some form of malicious code such as JavaScript, iFrames, and cross-site scripting.\n* Malicious ads are paid for and served through legitimate ad providers.\n* Built-in web application interfaces are leveraged for the insertion of any other kind of object that can be used to display web content or contain a script that executes on the visiting client (e.g. forum posts, comments, and other user controllable web content).\n\nOften the website used by an adversary is one visited by a specific community, such as government, a particular industry, or region, where the goal is to compromise a specific user or set of users based on a shared interest. This kind of targeted attack is referred to a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. There are several known examples of this occurring.(Citation: Lookout-StealthMango)\n\nTypical drive-by compromise process:\n\n1. A user visits a website that is used to host the adversary controlled content.\n2. Scripts automatically execute, typically searching versions of the browser and plugins for a potentially vulnerable version. \n    * The user may be required to assist in this process by enabling scripting or active website components and ignoring warning dialog boxes.\n3. Upon finding a vulnerable version, exploit code is delivered to the browser.\n4. If exploitation is successful, then it will give the adversary code execution on the user's system unless other protections are in place.\n    * In some cases a second visit to the website after the initial scan is required before exploit code is delivered.", "technique_name": "Drive-By Compromise", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1664", "descr": "Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities to gain initial access to a mobile device. \n\nThis can be accomplished in a variety of ways. Vulnerabilities may be present in the applications, the services, the underlying operating system, or the kernel itself. Several well-known mobile device exploits exist, including FORCEDENTRY, StageFright, and BlueBorne. Furthermore, some exploits may be possible to exploit without any user interaction (i.e. zero-click exploits, see [Exploitation for Client Execution](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1658)), making them particularly dangerous. Mobile operating system vendors are typically very quick to patch such critical bugs, ensuring only a small window where they can be exploited. ", "technique_name": "Exploitation for Initial Access", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1461", "descr": "An adversary with physical access to a mobile device may seek to bypass the device\u2019s lockscreen. Several methods exist to accomplish this, including:\n\n* Biometric spoofing: If biometric authentication is used, an adversary could attempt to spoof a mobile device\u2019s biometric authentication mechanism. Both iOS and Android partly mitigate this attack by requiring the device\u2019s passcode rather than biometrics to unlock the device after every device restart, and after a set or random amount of time.(Citation: SRLabs-Fingerprint)(Citation: TheSun-FaceID)\n* Unlock code bypass: An adversary could attempt to brute-force or otherwise guess the lockscreen passcode (typically a PIN or password), including physically observing (\u201cshoulder surfing\u201d) the device owner\u2019s use of the lockscreen passcode. Mobile OS vendors partly mitigate this by implementing incremental backoff timers after a set number of failed unlock attempts, as well as a configurable full device wipe after several failed unlock attempts.\n* Vulnerability exploit: Techniques have been periodically demonstrated that exploit mobile devices to bypass the lockscreen. The vulnerabilities are generally patched by the device or OS vendor once disclosed.(Citation: Wired-AndroidBypass)(Citation: Kaspersky-iOSBypass)\n", "technique_name": "Lockscreen Bypass", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1660", "descr": "Adversaries may send malicious content to users in order to gain access to their mobile devices. All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. Adversaries can conduct both non-targeted phishing, such as in mass malware spam campaigns, as well as more targeted phishing tailored for a specific individual, company, or industry, known as \u201cspearphishing\u201d.  Phishing often involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source, as well as evasion techniques, such as removing or manipulating emails or metadata/headers from compromised accounts being abused to send messages.\n\nMobile phishing may take various forms. For example, adversaries may send emails containing malicious attachments or links, typically to deliver and then execute malicious code on victim devices. Phishing may also be conducted via third-party services, like social media platforms.  \n\nMobile devices are a particularly attractive target for adversaries executing phishing campaigns.  Due to their smaller form factor than traditional desktop endpoints, users may not be able to notice minor differences between genuine and phishing websites. Further, mobile devices have additional sensors and radios that allow adversaries to execute phishing attempts over several different vectors, such as: \n\n- SMS messages: Adversaries may send SMS messages (known as \u201csmishing\u201d) from compromised devices to potential targets to convince the target to, for example, install malware, navigate to a specific website, or enable certain insecure configurations on their device.\n- Quick Response (QR) Codes: Adversaries may use QR codes (known as \u201cquishing\u201d) to redirect users to a phishing website. For example, an adversary could replace a legitimate public QR Code with one that leads to a different destination, such as a phishing website. A malicious QR code could also be delivered via other means, such as SMS or email. In the latter case, an adversary could utilize a malicious QR code in an email to pivot from the user\u2019s desktop computer to their mobile device.\n- Phone Calls: Adversaries may call victims (known as \u201cvishing\u201d) to persuade them to perform an action, such as providing login credentials or navigating to a malicious website. This could also be used as a technique to perform the initial access on a mobile device, but then pivot to a computer/other network by having the victim perform an action on a desktop computer.\n", "technique_name": "Phishing", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1458", "descr": "Adversaries may move onto devices by exploiting or copying malware to devices connected via USB. In the case of Lateral Movement, adversaries may utilize the physical connection of a device to a compromised or malicious charging station or PC to bypass application store requirements and install malicious applications directly.(Citation: Lau-Mactans) In the case of Initial Access, adversaries may attempt to exploit the device via the connection to gain access to data stored on the device.(Citation: Krebs-JuiceJacking) Examples of this include: \n \n* Exploiting insecure bootloaders in a Nexus 6 or 6P device over USB and gaining the ability to perform actions including intercepting phone calls, intercepting network traffic, and obtaining the device physical location.(Citation: IBM-NexusUSB) \n* Exploiting weakly-enforced security boundaries in Android devices such as the Google Pixel 2 over USB.(Citation: GoogleProjectZero-OATmeal) \n* Products from Cellebrite and Grayshift purportedly that can exploit some iOS devices using physical access to the data port to unlock the passcode.(Citation: Computerworld-iPhoneCracking) ", "technique_name": "Replication Through Removable Media", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1451", "descr": "Adversaries may gain access to mobile devices through transfers or swaps from victims\u2019 phone numbers to adversary-controlled SIM cards and mobile devices.(Citation: ATT SIM Swap Scams)(Citation: Verizon SIM Swapping) \n\nThe typical process is as follows:  \n\n1. Adversaries will first gather information about victims through [Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1660), social engineering, data breaches, or other avenues. \n2. Adversaries will then impersonate victims as they contact mobile carriers to request for the SIM swaps. For example, adversaries would provide victims\u2019 name and address to mobile carriers; once authenticated, adversaries would request for victims\u2019 phone numbers to be transferred to adversary-controlled SIM cards.  \n3. Once completed, victims will lose mobile data, such as text messages and phone calls, on their mobile devices. In turn, adversaries will receive mobile data that was intended for the victims.  \n\nAdversaries may use the intercepted SMS messages to log into online accounts that use SMS-based authentication. Specifically, adversaries may use SMS-based authentication to log into banking and/or cryptocurrency accounts, then transfer funds to adversary-controlled wallets. ", "technique_name": "SIM Card Swap", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1474", "descr": "Adversaries may manipulate products or product delivery mechanisms prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise.\n\nSupply chain compromise can take place at any stage of the supply chain including:\n\n* Manipulation of development tools\n* Manipulation of a development environment\n* Manipulation of source code repositories (public or private)\n* Manipulation of source code in open-source dependencies\n* Manipulation of software update/distribution mechanisms\n* Compromised/infected system images\n* Replacement of legitimate software with modified versions\n* Sales of modified/counterfeit products to legitimate distributors\n* Shipment interdiction\n\nWhile supply chain compromise can impact any component of hardware or software, attackers looking to gain execution have often focused on malicious additions to legitimate software in software distribution or update channels. Targeting may be specific to a desired victim set or malicious software may be distributed to a broad set of consumers but only move on to additional tactics on specific victims.  Popular open source projects that are used as dependencies in many applications may also be targeted as a means to add malicious code to users of the dependency, specifically with the widespread usage of third-party advertising libraries.(Citation: Grace-Advertisement)(Citation: NowSecure-RemoteCode)", "technique_name": "Supply Chain Compromise", "subtechniques": [{"name": "Compromise Software Dependencies and Development Tools", "id": "001", "descr": "Adversaries may manipulate products or product delivery mechanisms prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. Applications often depend on external software to function properly. Popular open source projects that are used as dependencies in many applications may be targeted as a means to add malicious code to users of the dependency.(Citation: Grace-Advertisement)"}, {"name": "Compromise Hardware Supply Chain", "id": "002", "descr": "Adversaries may manipulate hardware components in products prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. By modifying hardware or firmware in the supply chain, adversaries can insert a backdoor into consumer networks that may be difficult to detect and give the adversary a high degree of control over the system. "}, {"name": "Compromise Software Supply Chain", "id": "003", "descr": "Adversaries may manipulate application software prior to receipt by a final consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. Supply chain compromise of software can take place in a number of ways, including manipulation of the application source code, manipulation of the update/distribution mechanism for that software, or replacing compiled releases with a modified version."}]}], "techniques_table_len": "8", "versioning_feature": false}