Title: Discovery-mobile
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0032/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0032", "name": "Discovery", "name_lower": "discovery", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": null, "children": [{"name": "Enterprise", "id": "enterprise", "path": "/tactics/enterprise/", "children": [{"name": "Reconnaissance", "id": "Reconnaissance", "path": "/tactics/TA0043/", "children": []}, {"name": "Resource Development", "id": "Resource Development", "path": "/tactics/TA0042/", "children": []}, {"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0001/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0002/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0003/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0004/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0005/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0006/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0007/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0008/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0009/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0011/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0010/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0040/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Mobile", "id": "mobile", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0041/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "ICS", "id": "ics", "path": "/tactics/ics/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0108/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0104/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0110/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0111/", "children": []}, {"name": "Evasion", "id": "Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0103/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0102/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0109/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0100/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0101/", "children": []}, {"name": "Inhibit Response Function", "id": "Inhibit Response Function", "path": "/tactics/TA0107/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impair Process Control", "id": "Impair Process Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0106/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0105/", "children": []}]}]}, "domain": "mobile", "notes": null, "deprecated": false, "descr": "The adversary is trying to figure out your environment.\n\nDiscovery consists of techniques that allow the adversary to gain knowledge about the characteristics of the mobile device and potentially other networked systems. When adversaries gain access to a new system, they must orient themselves to what they now have control of and what benefits operating from that system give to their current objective or overall goals during the intrusion. The operating system may provide capabilities that aid in this post-compromise information-gathering phase.", "created": "17 October 2018", "modified": "25 April 2025", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T1420", "descr": "Adversaries may enumerate files and directories or search in specific device locations for desired information within a filesystem. Adversaries may use the information from [File and Directory Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1420) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including deciding if the adversary should fully infect the target and/or attempt specific actions. \n\nOn Android, Linux file permissions and SELinux policies typically stringently restrict what can be accessed by apps without taking advantage of a privilege escalation exploit. The contents of the external storage directory are generally visible, which could present concerns if sensitive data is inappropriately stored there. iOS's security architecture generally restricts the ability to perform any type of [File and Directory Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1420) without use of escalated privileges. ", "technique_name": "File and Directory Discovery", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1430", "descr": "Adversaries may track a device\u2019s physical location through use of standard operating system APIs via malicious or exploited applications on the compromised device. \n\n \n\nOn Android, applications holding the `ACCESS_COAURSE_LOCATION` or `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permissions provide access to the device\u2019s physical location. On Android 10 and up, declaration of the `ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION` permission in an application\u2019s manifest will allow applications to request location access even when the application is running in the background.(Citation: Android Request Location Permissions) Some adversaries have utilized integration of Baidu map services to retrieve geographical location once the location access permissions had been obtained.(Citation: PaloAlto-SpyDealer)(Citation: Palo Alto HenBox) \n\n \n\nOn iOS, applications must include the `NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`, `NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription`, and/or `NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription` keys in their `Info.plist` file depending on the extent of requested access to location information.(Citation: Apple Requesting Authorization for Location Services) On iOS 8.0 and up, applications call `requestWhenInUseAuthorization()` to request access to location information when the application is in use or `requestAlwaysAuthorization()` to request access to location information regardless of whether the application is in use. With elevated privileges, an adversary may be able to access location data without explicit user consent with the `com.apple.locationd.preauthorized` entitlement key.(Citation: Google Project Zero Insomnia)", "technique_name": "Location Tracking", "subtechniques": [{"name": "Remote Device Management Services", "id": "001", "descr": "An adversary may use access to cloud services (e.g. Google's Android Device Manager or Apple iCloud's Find my iPhone) or to an enterprise mobility management (EMM)/mobile device management (MDM) server console to track the location of mobile devices managed by the service.(Citation: Krebs-Location) "}, {"name": "Impersonate SS7 Nodes", "id": "002", "descr": "Adversaries may exploit the lack of authentication in signaling system network nodes to track the location of mobile devices by impersonating a node.(Citation: Engel-SS7)(Citation: Engel-SS7-2008)(Citation: 3GPP-Security)(Citation: Positive-SS7)(Citation: CSRIC5-WG10-FinalReport) \n\n \n\nBy providing the victim\u2019s MSISDN (phone number) and impersonating network internal nodes to query subscriber information from other nodes, adversaries may use data collected from each hop to eventually determine the device\u2019s geographical cell area or nearest cell tower.(Citation: Engel-SS7)"}]}, {"tid": "T1423", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts, including those that may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation. Methods to acquire this information include port scans and vulnerability scans from the mobile device. This technique may take advantage of the mobile device's access to an internal enterprise network either through local connectivity or through a Virtual Private Network (VPN).", "technique_name": "Network Service Scanning", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1424", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to get information about running processes on a device. Information obtained could be used to gain an understanding of common software/applications running on devices within a network. Adversaries may use the information from [Process Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1424) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions. \n\n \n\nRecent Android security enhancements have made it more difficult to obtain a list of running processes. On Android 7 and later, there is no way for an application to obtain the process list without abusing elevated privileges. This is due to the Android kernel utilizing the `hidepid` mount feature. Prior to Android 7, applications could utilize the `ps` command or examine the `/proc` directory on the device.(Citation: Android-SELinuxChanges) \n\n \n\nIn iOS, applications have previously been able to use the `sysctl` command to obtain a list of running processes. This functionality has been removed in later iOS versions. ", "technique_name": "Process Discovery", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1418", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of applications that are installed on a device. Adversaries may use the information from [Software Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1418) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not to fully infect the target and/or attempts specific actions. \n\n \n\nAdversaries may attempt to enumerate applications for a variety of reasons, such as figuring out what security measures are present or to identify the presence of target applications. ", "technique_name": "Software Discovery", "subtechniques": [{"name": "Security Software Discovery", "id": "001", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of security applications and configurations that are installed on a device. This may include things such as mobile security products. Adversaries may use the information from [Security Software Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1418/001) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not to fully infect the target and/or attempt specific actions. "}]}, {"tid": "T1426", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to get detailed information about a device\u2019s operating system and hardware, including versions, patches, and architecture. Adversaries may use the information from [System Information Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1426) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not to fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions. \n\n \n\nOn Android, much of this information is programmatically accessible to applications through the `android.os.Build` class. (Citation: Android-Build) iOS is much more restrictive with what information is visible to applications. Typically, applications will only be able to query the device model and which version of iOS it is running. ", "technique_name": "System Information Discovery", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T1422", "descr": "Adversaries may look for details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses, of devices they access or through information discovery of remote systems. \n\nAdversaries may use the information from [System Network Configuration Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1422) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining certain access within the target network and what actions to do next. \n\nOn Android, details of onboard network interfaces are accessible to apps through the `java.net.NetworkInterface` class.(Citation: NetworkInterface) Previously, the Android `TelephonyManager` class could be used to gather telephony-related device identifiers, information such as the IMSI, IMEI, and phone number. However, starting with Android 10, only preloaded, carrier, the default SMS, or device and profile owner applications can access the telephony-related device identifiers.(Citation: TelephonyManager) \n\n \n\nOn iOS, gathering network configuration information is not possible without root access. \n\n \n\nAdversaries may use the information from [System Network Configuration Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1422) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining certain access within the target network and what actions to do next. ", "technique_name": "System Network Configuration Discovery", "subtechniques": [{"name": "Internet Connection Discovery", "id": "001", "descr": "Adversaries may check for Internet connectivity on compromised systems. This may be performed during automated discovery and can be accomplished in numerous ways such as using `adb shell netstat` for Android.(Citation: adb_commands)\n\nAdversaries may use the results and responses from these requests to determine if the mobile devices are capable of communicating with adversary-owned C2 servers before attempting to connect to them. The results may also be used to identify routes, redirectors, and proxy servers."}, {"name": "Wi-Fi Discovery", "id": "002", "descr": "Adversaries may search for information about Wi-Fi networks, such as network names and passwords, on compromised systems. Adversaries may use Wi-Fi information as part of [Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0032) or [Credential Access](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0031) activity to support both ongoing and future campaigns. "}]}, {"tid": "T1421", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of network connections to or from the compromised device they are currently accessing or from remote systems by querying for information over the network. \n\n \n\nThis is typically accomplished by utilizing device APIs to collect information about nearby networks, such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular tower connections. On Android, this can be done by querying the respective APIs: \n\n \n\n* `WifiInfo` for information about the current Wi-Fi connection, as well as nearby Wi-Fi networks. Querying the `WiFiInfo` API requires the application to hold the `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission. \n\n* `BluetoothAdapter` for information about Bluetooth devices, which also requires the application to hold several permissions granted by the user at runtime. \n\n* For Android versions prior to Q, applications can use the `TelephonyManager.getNeighboringCellInfo()` method. For Q and later, applications can use the `TelephonyManager.getAllCellInfo()` method. Both methods require the application hold the `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission.", "technique_name": "System Network Connections Discovery", "subtechniques": []}], "techniques_table_len": "8", "versioning_feature": false}