Title: Execution-ics
Template: tactics/tactic
save_as: tactics/TA0104/index.html
data: {"attack_id": "TA0104", "name": "Execution", "name_lower": "execution", "side_menu_data": {"name": "tactics", "id": "tactics", "path": null, "children": [{"name": "Enterprise", "id": "enterprise", "path": "/tactics/enterprise/", "children": [{"name": "Reconnaissance", "id": "Reconnaissance", "path": "/tactics/TA0043/", "children": []}, {"name": "Resource Development", "id": "Resource Development", "path": "/tactics/TA0042/", "children": []}, {"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0001/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0002/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0003/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0004/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0005/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0006/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0007/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0008/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0009/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0011/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0010/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0040/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "Mobile", "id": "mobile", "path": "/tactics/mobile/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0027/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0041/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0028/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0029/", "children": []}, {"name": "Defense Evasion", "id": "Defense Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0030/", "children": []}, {"name": "Credential Access", "id": "Credential Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0031/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0032/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0033/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0035/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0037/", "children": []}, {"name": "Exfiltration", "id": "Exfiltration", "path": "/tactics/TA0036/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0034/", "children": []}, {"name": "Network Effects", "id": "Network Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0038/", "children": []}, {"name": "Remote Service Effects", "id": "Remote Service Effects", "path": "/tactics/TA0039/", "children": []}]}, {"name": "ICS", "id": "ics", "path": "/tactics/ics/", "children": [{"name": "Initial Access", "id": "Initial Access", "path": "/tactics/TA0108/", "children": []}, {"name": "Execution", "id": "Execution", "path": "/tactics/TA0104/", "children": []}, {"name": "Persistence", "id": "Persistence", "path": "/tactics/TA0110/", "children": []}, {"name": "Privilege Escalation", "id": "Privilege Escalation", "path": "/tactics/TA0111/", "children": []}, {"name": "Evasion", "id": "Evasion", "path": "/tactics/TA0103/", "children": []}, {"name": "Discovery", "id": "Discovery", "path": "/tactics/TA0102/", "children": []}, {"name": "Lateral Movement", "id": "Lateral Movement", "path": "/tactics/TA0109/", "children": []}, {"name": "Collection", "id": "Collection", "path": "/tactics/TA0100/", "children": []}, {"name": "Command and Control", "id": "Command and Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0101/", "children": []}, {"name": "Inhibit Response Function", "id": "Inhibit Response Function", "path": "/tactics/TA0107/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impair Process Control", "id": "Impair Process Control", "path": "/tactics/TA0106/", "children": []}, {"name": "Impact", "id": "Impact", "path": "/tactics/TA0105/", "children": []}]}]}, "domain": "ics", "notes": null, "deprecated": false, "descr": "The adversary is trying to run code or manipulate system functions, parameters, and data in an unauthorized way.\n\nExecution consists of techniques that result in adversary-controlled code running on a local or remote system, device, or other asset. This execution may also rely on unknowing end users or the manipulation of device operating modes to run. Adversaries may infect remote targets with programmed executables or malicious project files that operate according to specified behavior and may alter expected device behavior in subtle ways. Commands for execution may also be issued from command-line interfaces, APIs, GUIs, or other available interfaces. Techniques that run malicious code may also be paired with techniques from other tactics, particularly to aid network [Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0102) and [Collection](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0100), impact operations, and inhibit response functions.", "created": "17 October 2018", "modified": "16 April 2025", "techniques_table": [{"tid": "T0895", "descr": "Adversaries may leverage AutoRun functionality or scripts to execute malicious code. Devices configured to enable AutoRun functionality or legacy operating systems may be susceptible to abuse of these features to run malicious code stored on various forms of removeable media (i.e., USB, Disk Images [.ISO]). Commonly, AutoRun or AutoPlay are disabled in many operating systems configurations to mitigate against this technique. If a device is configured to enable AutoRun or AutoPlay, adversaries may execute code on the device by mounting the removable media to the device, either through physical or virtual means. This may be especially relevant for virtual machine environments where disk images may be dynamically mapped to a guest system on a hypervisor.  \n\nAn example could include an adversary gaining access to a hypervisor through the management interface to modify a virtual machine\u2019s hardware configuration. They could then deploy an iso image with a malicious AutoRun script to cause the virtual machine to automatically execute the code contained on the disk image. This would enable the execution of malicious code within a virtual machine without needing any prior remote access to that system.\n", "technique_name": "Autorun Image", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0858", "descr": "Adversaries may change the operating mode of a controller to gain additional access to engineering functions such as Program Download.   Programmable controllers typically have several modes of operation that control the state of the user program and control access to the controllers API. Operating modes can be physically selected using a key switch on the face of the controller but may also be selected with calls to the controllers API. Operating modes and the mechanisms by which they are selected often vary by vendor and product line. Some commonly implemented operating modes are described below:  \n\n* Program - This mode must be enabled before changes can be made to a devices program. This allows program uploads and downloads between the device and an engineering workstation. Often the PLCs logic Is halted, and all outputs may be forced off. (Citation: N.A. October 2017)  \n* Run - Execution of the devices program occurs in this mode. Input and output (values, points, tags, elements, etc.) are monitored and used according to the programs logic. [Program Upload](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0845) and [Program Download](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0843) are disabled while in this mode. (Citation: Omron) (Citation: Machine Information Systems 2007)  (Citation: N.A. October 2017) (Citation: PLCgurus 2021)   \n* Remote - Allows for remote changes to a PLCs operation mode. (Citation: PLCgurus 2021)    \n* Stop - The PLC and program is stopped, while in this mode, outputs are forced off. (Citation: Machine Information Systems 2007)   \n* Reset - Conditions on the PLC are reset to their original states. Warm resets may retain some memory while cold resets will reset all I/O and data registers. (Citation: Machine Information Systems 2007)   \n* Test / Monitor mode - Similar to run mode, I/O is processed, although this mode allows for monitoring, force set, resets, and more generally tuning or debugging of the system. Often monitor mode may be used as a trial for initialization. (Citation: Omron)", "technique_name": "Change Operating Mode", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0807", "descr": "Adversaries may utilize command-line interfaces (CLIs) to interact with systems and execute commands. CLIs provide a means of interacting with computer systems and are a common feature across many types of platforms and devices within control systems environments. (Citation: Enterprise ATT&CK January 2018) Adversaries may also use CLIs to install and run new software, including malicious tools that may be installed over the course of an operation.\n\nCLIs are typically accessed locally, but can also be exposed via services, such as SSH, Telnet, and RDP.  Commands that are executed in the CLI execute with the current permissions level of the process running the terminal emulator, unless the command specifies a change in permissions context. Many controllers have CLI interfaces for management purposes.", "technique_name": "Command-Line Interface", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0871", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to leverage Application Program Interfaces (APIs) used for communication between control software and the hardware. Specific functionality is often coded into APIs which can be called by software to engage specific functions on a device or other software.", "technique_name": "Execution through API", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0823", "descr": "Adversaries may attempt to gain access to a machine via a Graphical User Interface (GUI) to enhance execution capabilities. Access to a GUI allows a user to interact with a computer in a more visual manner than a CLI. A GUI allows users to move a cursor and click on interface objects, with a mouse and keyboard as the main input devices, as opposed to just using the keyboard.\n\nIf physical access is not an option, then access might be possible via protocols such as VNC on Linux-based and Unix-based operating systems, and RDP on Windows operating systems. An adversary can use this access to execute programs and applications on the target machine.", "technique_name": "Graphical User Interface", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0874", "descr": "Adversaries may hook into application programming interface (API) functions used by processes to redirect calls for execution and privilege escalation means. Windows processes often leverage these API functions to perform tasks that require reusable system resources. Windows API functions are typically stored in dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) as exported functions. (Citation: Enterprise ATT&CK)\n\nOne type of hooking seen in ICS involves redirecting calls to these functions via import address table (IAT) hooking. IAT hooking uses modifications to a process IAT, where pointers to imported API functions are stored. (Citation: Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien February 2011)", "technique_name": "Hooking", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0821", "descr": "Adversaries may modify the tasking of a controller to allow for the execution of their own programs. This can allow an adversary to manipulate the execution flow and behavior of a controller. \n\nAccording to 61131-3, the association of a Task with a Program Organization Unit (POU) defines a task association. (Citation: IEC February 2013) An adversary may modify these associations or create new ones to manipulate the execution flow of a controller. Modification of controller tasking can be accomplished using a Program Download in addition to other types of program modification such as online edit and program append.\n\nTasks have properties, such as interval, frequency and priority to meet the requirements of program execution. Some controller vendors implement tasks with implicit, pre-defined properties whereas others allow for these properties to be formulated explicitly. An adversary may associate their program with tasks that have a higher priority or execute associated programs more frequently. For instance, to ensure cyclic execution of their program on a Siemens controller, an adversary may add their program to the task, Organization Block 1 (OB1).", "technique_name": "Modify Controller Tasking", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0834", "descr": "Adversaries may directly interact with the native OS application programming interface (API) to access system functions. Native APIs provide a controlled means of calling low-level OS services within the kernel, such as those involving hardware/devices, memory, and processes. (Citation: The MITRE Corporation May 2017) These native APIs are leveraged by the OS during system boot (when other system components are not yet initialized) as well as carrying out tasks and requests during routine operations. \n\nFunctionality provided by native APIs are often also exposed to user-mode applications via interfaces and libraries. For example, functions such as memcpy and direct operations on memory registers can be used to modify user and system memory space.", "technique_name": "Native API", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0853", "descr": "Adversaries may use scripting languages to execute arbitrary code in the form of a pre-written script or in the form of user-supplied code to an interpreter. Scripting languages are programming languages that differ from compiled languages, in that scripting languages use an interpreter, instead of a compiler. These interpreters read and compile part of the source code just before it is executed, as opposed to compilers, which compile each and every line of code to an executable file. Scripting allows software developers to run their code on any system where the interpreter exists. This way, they can distribute one package, instead of precompiling executables for many different systems. Scripting languages, such as Python, have their interpreters shipped as a default with many Linux distributions. \n\nIn addition to being a useful tool for developers and administrators, scripting language interpreters may be abused by the adversary to execute code in the target environment. Due to the nature of scripting languages, this allows for weaponized code to be deployed to a target easily, and leaves open the possibility of on-the-fly scripting to perform a task.", "technique_name": "Scripting", "subtechniques": []}, {"tid": "T0863", "descr": "Adversaries may rely on a targeted organizations user interaction for the execution of malicious code. User interaction may consist of installing applications, opening email attachments, or granting higher permissions to documents. \n\nAdversaries may embed malicious code or visual basic code into files such as Microsoft Word and Excel documents or software installers. (Citation: Booz Allen Hamilton) Execution of this code requires that the user enable scripting or write access within the document. Embedded code may not always be noticeable to the user especially in cases of trojanized software. (Citation: Daavid Hentunen, Antti Tikkanen June 2014) \n\nA Chinese spearphishing campaign running from December 9, 2011 through February 29, 2012 delivered malware through spearphishing attachments which required user action to achieve execution. (Citation: CISA AA21-201A Pipeline Intrusion July 2021)", "technique_name": "User Execution", "subtechniques": []}], "techniques_table_len": "10", "versioning_feature": false}